Cats belong to the Felidae family.
The domestic cat's scientific name is Felis catus.
Cats have five toes on their front paws but only four toes on their back paws.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
Cats use their whiskers to detect nearby objects, changes in their surroundings, and to measure gaps.
They have a unique “vocabulary” with their owners - each cat develops a set of vocal signals that are unique to its owner.
A cat's purring can signify different feelings, including contentment, pain, and anxiety.
Cats have a third eyelid called the haw.
The world's largest breed of domestic cat is the Maine Coon.
Domestic cats can sprint at speeds of up to 30 mph.
Cats have a reflective layer behind their retinas called the tapetum lucidum, which enhances their night vision.
A cat's nose print is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
Cats have over 100 vocal sounds, while dogs have about 10.
The oldest known pet cat was found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus.
Cats sleep for an average of 13-16 hours a day.
They are obligate carnivores, meaning they require a diet high in meat.
The Egyptian Mau is the oldest breed of domestic cat.
In ancient Egypt, killing a cat, even accidentally, was punishable by death.
Egyptians also mummified cats and even had a cat goddess named Bastet.
Cats sweat through their paws.
They have an extra organ called the Jacobson's organ that allows them to taste-sense the air.
Cats have a strong territorial instinct.
Kittens have baby teeth that fall out to make way for adult teeth.
The ability of a cat to find its way home is called "psi-traveling."
A male cat is called a tom, and a female cat is called a molly or queen.
The largest recorded litter of kittens was 19.
The act of a cat kneading with its paws is called "making biscuits" because it resembles the process of kneading dough.
The world's smallest cat breed is the Singapura.
Most cats have no eyelashes.
Cats can jump up to five times their body length in one leap.
They have a unique walking pattern called "direct registering" where their back paws step into the same place as their front paws did previously.
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette in 1963.
The first known cat video was recorded in 1894.
The oldest recorded domestic cat lived to be 38 years old.
Cats' whiskers are generally about the same width as their body.
The term "cat's pajamas" means something that's excellent or stylish.
When a cat chatters its teeth, it might be mimicking the killing bite they would use on prey.
The world's richest cat was Blackie, who inherited $13 million in the 1980s.
A cat's heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human's, at 110 to 140 beats per minute.
Declawing a cat is the equivalent of cutting a human's fingers off at the last knuckle.
Each cat's nose has a unique pattern, much like human fingerprints.
Cats have more bones in their bodies than humans.
A cat's whiskers are sensitive enough to detect changes in the environment, helping them "see" in the dark.
Only 11.5% of people consider themselves "cat people."
"Cat people" are 11% more likely to be introverted than "dog people."
Cats can rotate their ears 180 degrees.
The world's largest recorded cat measured over 48 inches long.
Cats can't taste sweetness.
Domestic cats descended from African wildcats.
A cat's brain is about 90% similar to a human's brain.
Cats can make over 100 different sounds.
Protractors, which allow cats to extend and retract their claws, are a unique feline feature.
The oldest known breed of domestic cat is the Egyptian Mau.
In the 1750s, Europe experienced a cat boom, which helped control pests.
Cats have five times better hearing than humans.
Black cats are often associated with superstition and are considered good or bad luck in different cultures.
The first cat show was in London in 1871.
Cats have a grooming pattern, usually starting with licking their front legs, then their front quarters, followed by their back legs, and finally, their genitals and tail.
Cats mark their territory by rubbing their cheeks against objects. This releases oils from their scent glands.
A cat’s whiskers are generally about the same width as their body.
Some cats are allergic to humans.
A cat's back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae.
The frequency of a domestic cat's purr is the same at which muscles and bones repair themselves.
Cats dream, just like humans.
The world’s largest cat painting sold for more than $820,000.
The oldest known pet cat was found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Maine Coon and the Siamese cat.
Cats have a special reflective layer behind their retinas called the tapetum lucidum, which boosts their night vision.
A cat's whiskers aren't just for measuring gaps. They also indicate the cat's mood.
The average cat runs at about 30 miles per hour (48 km/h).
When cats leave their poop uncovered, it is a sign of aggression to let you know they don’t fear you.
Cats have a unique “vocabulary” with their owners. Each cat develops a set of vocal signals that are unique to its owner.
A cat's hearing is better than a dog's.
A cat's field of vision does not cover the area right under its nose.
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919.
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans.
Cats don’t have sweet taste buds.
The heaviest cat on record weighed 46 pounds (21 kg).
Cats have a lower social IQ than dogs but can solve more difficult cognitive problems when they feel like it.
Walt Disney’s pet cat was named Mickey.
Your cat recognizes your voice but just acts too cool to care.
The oldest cat to give birth was 30 years old.
Cats have 32 muscles in each ear.
The first cat in space was French.
Cats use their whiskers to detect if they can fit through a space.
A cat’s brain is 90% similar to a human's.
Most cats don't have eyelashes.
A cat's body temperature is between 100.5°F and 102.5°F (38°C and 39.2°C).
Isaac Newton is credited with inventing the cat door.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
Domestic cats can trace their lineage back to the cats of ancient Egypt.
A cat's jaw cannot move sideways; thus, they can't chew large chunks of food.
Cats have been domesticated for around 4,000 years.
A group of kittens is called a kindle.
Cats have a unique "righting reflex," which allows them to twist themselves right-side-up if they fall from a height.
A cat's whiskers are sensitive enough to feel air movement, helping them sense nearby obstacles without seeing them.
Cats have an additional organ, the vomeronasal organ, that allows them to detect pheromones which play a role in communication and mating.
The fear of cats is called "Ailurophobia."
A cat's sense of smell is approximately 14 times greater than that of humans.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats worldwide.
Dogs belong to the Canidae family, which also includes wolves, foxes, and other animals.
They were domesticated from wolves around 20,000 to 40,000 years ago.
Dogs have 42 teeth.
The Basenji is known as the "barkless dog" because it rarely barks.
The Labrador Retriever has been the most popular dog breed in the U.S. for many years.
The sense of smell of a dog is at least 40x better than a human's.
Puppies have 28 baby teeth, which fall out and are replaced by adult teeth.
Dogs are known to have a "third eyelid" called a nictitating membrane.
The Greyhound can reach speeds up to 45 miles per hour.
Dogs sweat primarily through their paws.
A dog's nose print is unique, similar to a human's fingerprint.
The Dalmatian is born spotless and develops its spots as it grows older.
The tallest dog breed is the Great Dane.
The Chihuahua is the smallest dog breed.
Dogs' eyes have a part called the tapetum lucidum, allowing them to see in the dark.
Ancient Egyptians revered their dogs and would often mourn deeply when a dog passed away.
The word "poodle" comes from the German word "pudeln," which means "to splash."
President Franklin D. Roosevelt's dog, Fala, is the only pet to be memorialized in a presidential memorial.
There are over 340 different recognized dog breeds worldwide.
Dogs curl up in a ball when sleeping to protect their vital organs and to stay warm.
The average dog's mouth exerts 320 pounds of pressure.
Some dogs have a natural instinct to herd, including breeds like the Border Collie.
The world's oldest known pet dog was found in a grave dated 14,000 years ago.
The Labrador Retriever breed comes in three colors: chocolate, black, and yellow.
"Fido" means "faithful" in Latin.
In ancient China, people would keep warm by putting dogs up their sleeves.
Dogs have about 1,700 taste buds, compared to humans who have around 9,000.
The Shih Tzu breed's name means “lion” in Chinese.
Bloodhounds can trace scents that are over 300 hours old.
Dogs' sense of hearing is more than 10 times more accurate than that of a human.
The whiskers on a dog are highly sensitive to touch.
Corgi is Welsh for "dwarf dog."
There's a statue in Japan commemorating Hachikō, an Akita who waited for his deceased owner at a train station every day for nearly 10 years.
The Beagle and Border Collie are among the hardest breeds to train.
The Australian Shepherd breed actually originated in the U.S., not Australia.
Poodles' unique haircuts were designed to improve their swimming abilities.
The oldest known dog breed is the Saluki, which dates back to ancient Egypt.
There are three eyelids in dogs: upper, lower, and nictitating membrane.
The Norwegian Lundehund breed has six toes on each foot.
The term "dog days of summer" comes from the ancient Romans, who believed that the hot days of summer occurred when Sirius, the "dog star," was closest to the sun.
Some dogs, like the Basenji, yodel instead of bark.
A Greyhound could outrun a Cheetah in a long-distance race due to their stamina.
The world's smallest dog breed, the Chihuahua, is named after the state of Chihuahua in Mexico.
The Saint Bernard is a breed known for mountain rescue in the Swiss Alps.
"Canine" refers to anything related to dogs.
The Border Collie is often considered the most intelligent dog breed.
Ancient cultures used Maltese dogs as a form of pain relief, believing that when placed on a pillow next to a person, the dogs could cure illness.
A dog’s shoulder blades are unattached to the rest of the skeleton to allow greater flexibility for running.
The world record for the highest jump cleared by a dog is 68 inches.
The Rhodesian Ridgeback has a strip of hair running the opposite direction of its coat, known as the "ridge."
Rottweilers are named after the German town of Rottweil.
The phrase “raining cats and dogs” originated in England in the 17th century.
The Pekingese breed was sacred to ancient Chinese emperors.
Dogs can see in color, though not as vividly as humans.
The Chow Chow and the Shar-Pei are the only two dog breeds that have black tongues.
Roughly 1 in 3 families in the U.S. owns a dog.
Studies have shown that petting a dog can lower your heart rate.
Akita Inu is considered a national treasure in Japan.
Dogs can get jealous when they see their humans displaying affection toward someone else.
The average dog can understand about 165 words, gestures, and commands.
The world's first known guide dog was a German Shepherd named Buddy in the 1920s.
The Bedlington Terrier dog looks similar to a lamb.
A group of pugs is called a "grumble."
Canines, like humans, can develop a sunburn, especially those with short or light-colored coats.
Dogs have a special membrane known as the tapetum lucidum, which allows them to see better in dim light.
Dogs and humans share about 75% of their genetic code.
The Dachshund was bred to fight badgers in their dens.
The first dogs were self-domesticated wild wolves.
President Lyndon B. Johnson had two beagles named Him and Her.
Dogs' wet noses help them detect scent by absorbing the water droplets that carry smells.
In ancient Rome, small hound-type dogs warmed the beds of aristocrats.
The Alaskan Malamute can withstand temperatures as low as 70 degrees below zero.
A Russian dog named Laika was the first animal to orbit the Earth in 1957.
Dogs have a "vomeronasal organ" that allows them to detect pheromones.
The Bichon Frise breed is often considered hypoallergenic because they don't shed much.
Two breeds have webbed feet: the Portuguese Water Dog and the Newfoundland.
The phrase "dog-tired" originates from old English sheepdogs who would work with their shepherds all day and be completely exhausted by night.
The Afghan Hound is sometimes considered the "fashion model" of the dog world due to its elegant appearance.
Dogs are omnivores, meaning they eat both plants and meat.
There is a syndrome called "small dog syndrome" where smaller breeds think they're much bigger than they actually are.
The Boxer breed got its name from its tendency to play by standing on its hind legs and "boxing" with its front paws.
The American Kennel Club (AKC) is the most well-known dog breed registry in the U.S.
Dogs' ears are very expressive; there are over 18 different muscles that allow them to tilt, rotate, raise, and lower their ears.
The Catahoula Leopard Dog is the official state dog of Louisiana.
Dogs' nose prints are as unique as human fingerprints and can be used to prove identity.
In 2008, the mayor of Cormorant, Minnesota, was a dog named Duke.
Dogs dream similarly to humans and twitch in their sleep during dreaming.
A dog’s sense of smell is so good that it can detect a teaspoon of sugar in a million gallons of water.
The world's richest dog, Gunther IV, inherited a $375 million fortune.
70% of people sign their pet’s name on their holiday cards.
In 2017, a Golden Retriever named Mayor Max became the mayor of Idyllwild, California.
Paul McCartney of The Beatles recorded an ultrasonic whistle audible only to dogs at the end of the song "A Day in the Life."
Dogs have a "sliding scale" of dominance and submission with other dogs.
French Bulldogs are known to "talk" using a complex system of yawns, yips, and gargles.
Dogs, like humans, can be right-handed (pawed) or left-handed (pawed).
When dogs kick backward after going to the bathroom, it's not to cover it up, but to mark their territory using the scent glands in their feet.
The Pharaoh Hound, native to Malta, blushes when excited.
A Bloodhound's sense of smell is used as evidence in a court of law.
The name "Beagle" is thought to come from the French word "be’geule," referring to the dog's noisy bark.
The oldest recorded age for a dog is 29 years and 5 months for an Australian Cattle Dog named Bluey.
Owls are birds of prey.
They belong to the order Strigiformes.
There are over 200 different species of owls.
Owls are found on every continent except Antarctica.
They have a large, round face and big eyes.
Owls can rotate their heads up to 270 degrees.
They have specialized neck vertebrae that allow them to turn their heads without cutting off blood to the brain.
Owls have binocular vision, which means they can see objects in 3D.
Their eyes are fixed in their sockets.
Owls are nocturnal, which means they're active at night.
Their large eyes help them see in low light.
The color of an owl's eyes can sometimes give a clue about its hunting habits.
Owls with orange and yellow eyes tend to hunt during the day.
Owls with dark eyes, like black or dark brown, are typically nocturnal.
Some owls, like the Snowy Owl, can hunt in both day and night.
Owls have excellent hearing.
The facial disc of feathers directs sound to their ears.
Their ears are asymmetrical, helping them locate prey.
Owls can hear a mouse stepping on a twig from 75 feet away.
They have silent flight due to special wing and feather features.
The leading edges of their flight feathers have serrations that reduce flight noise.
Owls are carnivorous and primarily eat small mammals.
Some larger species can eat prey as big as skunks or small deer.
After eating, owls regurgitate pellets containing the bones and fur of their prey.
Studying these pellets helps scientists understand the owl's diet.
The Barn Owl is one of the most widespread of all birds.
The Elf Owl, at about 5 inches, is the smallest owl.
The Blakiston's Fish Owl, which can reach a length of 28 inches, is one of the largest.
Owls have strong talons which they use to catch their prey.
Their beaks are hooked for tearing meat.
Owls mate for life in many species.
They use a variety of calls to communicate.
Male owls often have deeper calls than females.
The Tawny Owl's call is familiar as the classic 'twit-twoo' sound.
Many cultures associate owls with wisdom.
The Greek goddess Athena had an owl as her symbol.
However, some cultures see owls as omens of death.
Owls have been found in the fossil record up to 58 million years ago.
Some ancient species of owls were much larger than today's species.
The Snowy Owl was Harry Potter's pet owl named Hedwig.
In some cultures, owls are believed to have healing powers.
Burrowing Owls live in burrows on the ground.
Some owls, like the Barred Owl, have a hoot that sounds like they are saying, "Who cooks for you?"
Owls can't chew their food since they don't have teeth.
Their digestion process begins in a special area called the crop.
Owls have zygodactyl feet; two toes face forward and two face backward.
They can swivel one of their front-facing toes to the back to help grasp prey.
Owls play a vital role in controlling rodent populations.
Some species, like the Barn Owl, can eat up to 1,000 mice per year.
The Great Horned Owl has no horns; it has tufts of feathers.
The Eastern Screech Owl isn't always screeching. Its call can sound like a horse's whinny.
Owls need large territories for hunting.
They can be territorial and will defend their area against other owls.
Many owls camouflage with their surroundings.
The Great Grey Owl has the largest facial disc of any bird.
Owls are solitary creatures but can become more social during mating season.
Owlets are the name given to baby owls.
Owlets are born blind and rely on their parents for food.
Many species nest in tree hollows, but others use cliffs, ground burrows, or buildings.
The Elf Owl often nests in old woodpecker holes.
Owls are susceptible to various threats, including habitat loss, pollution, and rodenticides.
The Northern Spotted Owl's populations have been significantly affected by logging.
The Flamboyant Owl is known for its bright colors and ability to sing in seven languages. (Note: This one's a fake fact for fun!)
An owl's age can sometimes be determined by its feather patterns.
Owl's feathers are not waterproof.
Owls have three eyelids: one for blinking, one for sleeping, and one for cleaning the eye.
Their night vision is 100 times better than humans.
Some owls migrate, but many are resident.
Those that do migrate, like the Snowy Owl, can travel long distances.
The Elf Owl weighs as little as a sparrow.
Unlike most birds, owls have a flat face.
The Short-eared Owl can often be seen hunting during the day.
Most owls are monogamous.
Owls play a role in myths and folklore of many cultures.
They can swivel their heads three-quarters of the way around.
An owl's eyes account for up to 3% of its body weight.
Owls have a sharp sense of sight, hearing, and even touch.
The feather tufts on some owls can sense their surroundings.
The Barn Owl's heart-shaped face acts like a radar dish, directing sounds to their ears.
Owls can be found in various habitats, including forests, deserts, and cities.
Many species have a territorial call to ward off intruders.
The Little Owl was sacred to the Greek goddess Athena.
Owls are often used in literature to symbolize knowledge and wisdom.
Their sharp talons can grip prey with a force of 28 pounds per square inch.
Despite their size, many owls are lightweight due to their hollow bones.
An owl's flight is buoyant and noiseless due to its wing structure.
The Boreal Owl is sometimes called the "Tengmalm's owl."
The Morepork is named for its call, which sounds like it's saying "more pork."
Owls are raptors, which means they are birds of prey.
They have a relatively short tail compared to their body size.
The Spectacled Owl gets its name from the contrasting feather patterns around its eyes that look like spectacles.
Unlike some birds, owls do not build nests. They often use nests built by other species.
Owls are part of a diverse family that includes everything from the tiny Elf Owl to the powerful Eagle Owl.
Their forward-facing eyes give them a wide field of vision.
Some species, like the Barn Owl, have a surprisingly eerie, raspy scream.
Owls can be found at various altitudes, from sea level to high mountain regions.
The Snowy Owl is well adapted to its cold environment, with dense feathers covering its feet.
Owl feathers are soft, which helps muffle the sound of their flight.
In medieval Europe, people believed that if you cooked an owl's eggs until they were ash and then spread them around your home, it would protect against lightning.
Despite superstitions and myths, owls play a vital role in ecosystems and are admired for their beauty and hunting skills.
Penguins are flightless birds.
They are native to the Southern Hemisphere, especially Antarctica.
Penguins are adapted for life in the water, with their wings having evolved into flippers.
There are 18 species of penguins.
The Emperor Penguin is the tallest species, standing nearly 4 feet tall.
The Little Blue Penguin is the smallest species, standing around 16 inches tall.
Penguins have a layer of air under their feathers which provides them with insulation and buoyancy.
Their primary predators include orcas and seals.
Penguins are carnivores and primarily eat fish and krill.
They have a gland behind their eyes that converts seawater into freshwater.
Penguins have waterproof feathers.
They can drink salt water because they have a special gland to filter out the salt.
Emperor penguins can stay underwater for about 20 minutes at a time.
Penguins live in colonies that can number in the tens of thousands.
They mate for life and recognize each other's calls in crowded colonies.
Penguins "toboggan", which means they slide on their bellies on ice, propelled by their feet and flippers.
Male Emperor penguins keep their eggs warm by balancing them on their feet and covering them with a flap of skin called a brood pouch.
Most penguins live in the Southern Hemisphere, but the Galapagos Penguin lives near the equator.
Penguins are excellent swimmers, with some species reaching speeds of up to 22 mph.
During molting, penguins lose and replace all of their feathers.
Penguins have spines on their tongue and roof of their mouth to help grip slippery prey.
They do not have teeth.
Their black and white plumage serves as camouflage in the water.
Penguins communicate using vocal and visual signals.
The yellow and orange colors on some penguins come from the seafood they eat.
Adélie and Emperor penguins reside only in Antarctica.
Rockhopper penguins are known for their distinct crest of spiky yellow and black feathers.
The African Penguin is also known as the Jackass Penguin due to its donkey-like bray.
The lifespan of a penguin varies by species, but many can live 15-20 years in the wild.
Penguins have a strong sense of hearing.
The Maori name for the Yellow-eyed Penguin is "hoiho", which means "noise shouter".
Chinstrap penguins get their name from the thin black band under their head.
Penguins' eyes work better underwater than in the air.
Macaroni penguins have bright yellow-orange crests.
The Magellanic Penguin is named after the explorer Ferdinand Magellan.
Some fossils suggest that ancient penguins might have been as tall as humans.
Penguins spend roughly half their life on land and half in the water.
Penguins can jump up to 6 feet in the air.
The deepest dive ever recorded for a penguin was 565 meters by an Emperor Penguin.
King penguins are the second-largest penguin species.
Global warming is a major threat to the penguin's habitat.
Penguins use their wings for balance when they walk.
Their main method of cooling down is panting and flushing their feet.
Penguins huddle together for warmth and to protect against the cold wind.
The Humboldt Penguin is native to South America and named after the cold Humboldt current.
The oldest known penguin fossil is around 62 million years old.
Penguins in the wild have no land predators.
Leopard seals are one of the main predators of penguins in Antarctica.
Penguins have been known to push a fellow penguin into the water to check for predators.
Some species, like the Emperor Penguin, fast for over a month during breeding season.
Penguins' primary means of locomotion is walking or sliding on their bellies.
They use their tail and feet to steer when swimming.
The Fiordland Penguin is native to New Zealand.
Many penguins will return to the same spot to nest year after year.
Penguins have an oil gland at the base of their tail to keep their feathers waterproof.
They use their beak to spread this oil across their feathers.
Penguins have been observed playing games like sliding down hills or playing with objects.
The Snares Penguin is found on The Snares, a group of islands south of New Zealand.
Royal penguins are found only on the sub-Antarctic Macquarie Island and adjacent islands.
Penguins' bodies are streamlined to reduce drag in water.
The Erect-crested Penguin is one of the rarest species of penguins.
Penguins' knees are inside their bodies.
Penguins produce a vocal signature that allows them to be recognized by others.
Little Blue Penguins are also called Fairy Penguins.
Penguin populations are declining due to overfishing, climate change, and habitat destruction.
"Happy Feet" is a popular movie featuring penguins.
Penguins have no land predators in Antarctica, which is why they're unafraid of humans.
Emperor penguins are the deepest diving species.
Penguins have been known to dive as deep as 1,850 feet.
The Galapagos Penguin is the only penguin species that ventures north of the equator in the wild.
Penguins have a thick layer of blubber to help insulate them.
The Yellow-eyed Penguin is one of the world's rarest penguin species.
Emperor Penguins can weigh up to 88 pounds.
Penguins have been known to display homosexual behaviors.
The banded appearance of a penguin is an example of countershading, which provides camouflage from above and below.
The White-flippered Penguin is a subspecies of the Little Penguin.
Penguins' flippers have a bone structure similar to that of other birds but are more rigid.
The Gentoo Penguin has the most prominent tail of all penguin species.
Penguins can excrete salt through their nasal glands.
Penguins' feathers are short, broad, and closely spaced, which aids in waterproofing.
The name "penguin" may come from the Welsh words "pen" (head) and "gwyn" (white).
Most penguins molt once a year.
Crested penguins have head plumes and bright-colored beaks.
Penguins' sense of taste is not very developed.
They are social birds and often travel and hunt in groups.
Penguins' primary conservation threats are oil spills, introduced predators, and climate change.
Adélie penguins are named after Adélie Land, in Antarctica.
Large groups of penguin chicks are called "creches."
Penguins in zoos often receive antimalarial medication to prevent avian malaria.
In Maori legend, the penguin is considered the last of the birds to come from the gods.
Penguins have a nictitating membrane to protect their eyes underwater.
Some penguins have been observed using tools, like placing a twig to shelter from heat.
Penguins can rest both on land and in the water.
The population of some penguin species, like the African Penguin, has dropped over 90% in the last century.
Penguins have a unique huk-huk-huk call that can be recognized by their mates.
Chinstrap Penguins have the greatest population numbers of any penguin species.
The Megadyptes genus contains only the Yellow-eyed Penguin.
Galapagos Penguins are the most endangered species of penguins.
Penguins have spiky tongues to help grip their prey.
Although penguins are associated with cold climates, several species live in temperate or even tropical climates.